DOCS-7847 Add Getting Started with Code Analysis Documentation (#24066)
DataDog/documentation: content/en/getting_started/code_analysis/_index.md

| Tool Name                         | Determines which tools contributed to the analysis.                     |
| CWE (Common Weakness Enumeration) | Filters findings by recognized vulnerability categories.                |
| Has Fixes                         | Filters issues for which suggested fixes are available.                 |
| Result Message                    | Contains concise descriptions or messages associated with the findings. |
| Rule Description                  | Contains the rationale behind each rule.                                |
| Source File                       | Contains the files where issues were detected.                          |
| Tool Version                      | Filters results by the version of the tools used.                       |

You can access suggested fixes directly from the results to improve code quality practices and address security vulnerabilities.

{{< img src="/getting_started/code_analysis/suggested_fix.png" alt="A suggested code fix on the Fixes tab of a Code Analysis result" style="width:100%" >}}

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "Software Composition Analysis" %}}

> You can use the following out-of-the-box facets to create a search query for identifying and addressing security risks in third-party libraries in the **Library Vulnerabilities** tab or looking at your library inventory in the **Library Catalog** tab.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can use the following out-of-the-box facets to create a search query for identifying and addressing security risks in third-party libraries in the **Library Vulnerabilities** tab or review your library inventory in the **Library Catalog** tab.
```

---
title: Getting Started with Code Analysis
further_reading:
- link: 'https://www.datadoghq.com/blog/datadog-code-analysis/'
  tag: 'Blog'
  text: 'Ship high-quality, secure code faster with Datadog Code Analysis'
- link: 'https://www.datadoghq.com/blog/datadog-software-composition-analysis/'
  tag: 'Blog'
  text: 'Mitigate vulnerabilities from third-party libraries with Datadog Software Composition Analysis'
- link: '/code_analysis/'
  tag: 'Documentation'
  text: 'Learn about Code Analysis'
- link: '/security/application_security/software_composition_analysis'
  tag: 'Documentation'
  text: 'Learn about Software Composition Analysis'
algolia:
  tags: ["code analysis", "code analysis datadog", "code analysis ci pipeline", "code analysis ci pipelines"]
---

## Overview

> [Datadog Code Analysis][1] allows you to identify and resolve code quality issues and security vulnerabilities directly in Datadog or in your CI pipelines before deployment, ensuring a robust production build. 

Reviewer 2: "allows you to identify and resolve code quality issues and security vulnerabilities before deploying to production, ensuring safe and clean code throughout the software development lifecycle."

Author: ```suggestion
[Datadog Code Analysis][1] allows you to identify and resolve code quality issues and security vulnerabilities before deploying to production, ensuring safe and clean code throughout the software development lifecycle. 
```

{{< img src="/code_analysis/repositories.png" alt="Session Replay available button, as well as visualization options" style="width:100%" >}}

Code Analysis offers a comprehensive suite of tools, including [Static Analysis][2] and [Software Composition Analysis][3], to improve overall software delivery.

> * Static Analysis directly scans your repositories for bugs and performance issues, and suggests fixes to prevent these issues from impacting production. 

Reviewer 2: Static Analysis (SAST) scans your repositories for quality and security issues in first-party code, and suggests fixes to prevent these issues from impacting production.

Author: ```suggestion
* Static Analysis (SAST) scans your repositories for quality and security issues in first-party code, and suggests fixes to prevent these issues from impacting production.
```

> * Software Composition Analysis checks your imported open source libraries for known security vulnerabilities, securing your applications from external threats. To view all vulnerabilities found in repositories and at runtime consolidated together, see the [Application Security documentation][4].

Reviewer 2: Software Composition Analysis (SCA) scans your codebase for imported open source libraries, helping you manage your dependencies and secure your applications from external threats.

Author: ```suggestion
* Software Composition Analysis (SCA) scans your codebase for imported open source libraries, helping you manage your dependencies and secure your applications from external threats.
```

cd /osv-scanner && unzip osv-scanner.zip
chmod 755 /osv-scanner/osv-scanner

# Output OSC Scanner results
/osv-scanner/osv-scanner --skip-git -r --experimental-only-packages --format=cyclonedx-1-5 --paths-relative-to-scan-dir  --output=/tmp/sbom.json /path/to/repository

# Upload results
datadog-ci sbom upload --service "shopist" --env "ci" /tmp/sbom.json
```

Once you’ve configured these scripts, run an analysis of your repository on the default branch. Then, results will start appearing on the **Repositories** page.

[101]: /code_analysis/static_analysis
[102]: /code_analysis/software_composition_analysis
[103]: /integrations/github
[104]: https://docs.github.com/en/actions/security-guides/using-secrets-in-github-actions
[105]: /code_analysis/github_pull_requests
[106]: https://app.datadoghq.com/ci/settings/code-analysis
[107]: /code_analysis/static_analysis/generic_ci_providers
[108]: /code_analysis/software_composition_analysis/generic_ci_providers
[109]: https://app.datadoghq.com/ci/code-analysis
[110]: /account_management/api-app-keys/
[111]: https://www.npmjs.com/package/@datadog/datadog-ci

{{% /tab %}}
{{< /tabs >}}

## Run Static Analysis in an IDE

> Install the [Datadog IDE plugins][7] to run Static Analysis scans and see results directly in your code editor. You can detect and fix problems such as maintainability issues, bugs, or security vulnerabilities in your code before you commit your changes. 

Reviewer 2: to run Static Analysis scans locally

Author: ```suggestion
Install the [Datadog IDE plugins][7] to run Static Analysis scans locally and see results directly in your code editor. You can detect and fix problems such as maintainability issues, bugs, or security vulnerabilities in your code before you commit your changes. 
```

To start running Static Analysis scans in your IDE, see the respective documentation for your code editor of choice.

{{< partial name="code_analysis/ide-plugins.html" >}}

</br>

> ## Use Code Analysis data

Reviewer 2: Let's remove this section since we don't have a robust UI for this yet

> ## Use Code Analysis data
> 
> Explore data collected by Code Analysis about severity violations, most common violations, and violations over time by category to enhance code quality, strengthen security measures, and maintain high coding standards across projects.
> 
> {{< img src="/getting_started/code_analysis/dashboard.png" alt="An OOTB dashboard displaying an overview of your Static Analysis results in Datadog." style="width:100%" >}}
> 
> You can create [dashboards][8] to visualize your code analysis metrics, or use an [out-of-the-box dashboard][9] that includes widgets populated with data collected by Code Analysis to help you identify areas of improvement with usage patterns and trends.

Author: ```suggestion
```

{{< img src="/getting_started/code_analysis/catalog_view.png" alt="A link to the source code directly in GitHub from a detected library vulnerability" style="width:100%" >}}

Click on a service to access information about CI pipelines from Pipeline Visibility, in addition to security vulnerabilities and code quality issues from Code Analysis on the **Delivery** tab of the side panel.

{{< img src="/getting_started/code_analysis/catalog_service.png" alt="A link to the source code directly in GitHub from a detected library vulnerability" style="width:100%" >}}

## Further Reading

{{< partial name="whats-next/whats-next.html" >}}

[1]: /code_analysis/
[2]: /code_analysis/static_analysis
[3]: /code_analysis/software_composition_analysis
[4]: /security/application_security/software_composition_analysis
[5]: https://www.npmjs.com/package/@datadog/datadog-ci
[6]: https://app.datadoghq.com/ci/code-analysis
[7]: /code_analysis/ide_plugins

> [8]: /dashboards/

Author: ```suggestion
```
